# Koop Provider - Quickbase for ArcGIS

#### [Provider Summary](#Provider-Summary) | [Usage](#Usage) | [How To Implement](#How-To-Implement) | [Usage](#Usage) | [Caveats](#Caveats) | [Todo](#Todo) 

[View Live Demo](https://joelhickok.github.io/koop-quickbase-demo/)

---

### Quick Start
`npm install --save @koopjs/koop-core koop-provider-quickbase`

```js
// After creating your Koop project files, update
// your Koop index or server js to add this provider

// register the plugin with koop
const provider = require('koop-provider-quickbase')
koop.register(provider)

// Read docs for URL syntax to use the endpoint(s), such as required url query params
```

### Provider Summary:

Use this provider module with [Koop](https://koopjs.github.io/) to run a realtime ETL on Quickbase 
data and access it as a Feature Service meeting the specification to use with ArcGIS and other 
products or apps. 

> #### This is a realtime ETL, allowing you to see changes to the Quickbase data after each app/service reload, or based on a refresh interval!
>
> (Unless caching is used.)

**What is Koop?**  Koop is an open source geospatial data server.  It is essentially an Extract-Transform-Load server that lets you
pull data from one source and access it as a Geoservice, such as an ArcGIS FeatureLayer or WMS.  **Clearly** your table data must contain
geospatial coordinates in a field/column so it can be mapped.

**What is Quickbase?**  [Quickbase](https://www.quickbase.com) is a successful low-code PaaS serving both as a cloud-database and app builder.  It can
be used by developers/testers through the [Builder Program](https://www.quickbase.com/builder-program) if you sign up for an account.

---

### How To Implement:

1. Create a Koop project, aka build an instance.
2. Download the module and place it within your Koop app/instance.
3. Configure Koop to register this provider as a plugin.
4. Set up your .env file with token.
5. Deploy your Koop app with the module.
6. Access the Feature Service endpoint and add to your GIS software.

---

### Usage:

#### Anatomy of the URL

This applies when using a FeatureLayer URL.  WMS is not documented or test yet

- **URL Path:** From the URL root, the provider lives under the `/quickbase` directory, but uses conventional Feature Service directory names for the most part.
- **Quickbase Realm:** The provider needs to know the name of your realm to access the data.  Place the name right after `/services` in the path.
- **App ID & Table ID:** The IDs of the app where the table lives, and the ID of the Table itself, must be concatenated using a `-`.  E.g. `../services/qb-realm/abc123-abc456/...`
- **Service Type:** The URL contains a type, such as `/FeatureServer`, and must also contain the layer ID, such as 0 or 1 when accessing data, such as `/FeatureServer/0`.
                          In most cases the ID will be 0 since there is one layer (advances could create a more sophisticated system using layer IDs, but does it make sense?).
- **Query Parameters:** (only one is required)
  - _coords_fid_ (required): Identify and append the Field ID from Quickbase of the field containing GCS coordinates.  e.g. `?coords_fid=9`
  - Others: Many parameters can be appended if they meet the spec, such as `&inSR=4326&outSR=3857` to ensure your web app puts your points at the right location.

##### Full Example:
> https://domain.host/quickbase/rest/services/quickbase-realm-name/appId-tableId/FeatureServer/0/query?coordinates=9&inSR=4326&outSR=3857

This corresponds to a Quickbase URL of:
> https://{quickbase-realm-name}.quickbase.com/nav/app/{appId}/table/{tableId}/

#### Add Service To An App

###### Basic Example Using Esri Leaflet

```js
import {featureLayer} from 'esri-leaflet'

const layer = featureLayer({
    url: 'https://localhost:8443/quickbase/rest/services/builderprogram-username/bty227quq-bfy86afhg/FeatureServer/0?coords_fid=9&inSR=4326&outSR=3857',
    //                                                         ^ QB Realm Name     ^ App ID    ^ Table ID                      ^ Coordinates FID
    useCors: true,
    fields: ['*'],
    fetchAllFeatures: true,
    pointToLayer(feature, latlng) {
        return L.circleMarker(latlng, {
            radius: 8,
            color: 'dodgerblue',
            weight: 1,
            fillColor: 'dodgerblue',
            fillOpacity: 0.3,
        })
    },
}).addTo(map)

// View your Quickbase data in realtime on the map!
```

---

### Caveats:

- As of the latest testing, the updated _Map Viewer_ in ArcGIS Online is too fickle to accept data from most
  Koop Providers, including this one.
- Currently only works with **Point Geometry!**
- You must provide a QB_TOKEN in your .env file generated by your Quickbase user.  In the future, a work-around
  could implemement the ability to access public Quickbase data without a token.
- Some apps will require that your endpoint uses SSL, so for local testing, in those cases, you must run Koop using SSL or proxy the app.

---

### Todo:

1. Low priority: Ingest lines or polygons.  You would have to accurately store long strings in a Quickbase table.
2. Fine tune compatibility with a range of apps, including the new AGOL Map Viewer.
3. Test WMS and other service outputs. [See List Here](https://koopjs.github.io/docs/available-plugins/outputs)
4. Implement blocks to catch failures, such as when the spatial data is not a point, for example an array of points.

